I was the only reviewer on a re-submission of this (review submitted on June 14 and sent to authors by June 19th). Published article shows that this was revised on June 20 and accepted on June 24. The changes I strongly advocated for do not seem to have been incorporated based on a quick skim of the published manuscript. I did not see a second re-submission of this and am dissapointed in both the authors and editors for allowing this to get published--especially on such an apparently accelerated time table. I think I will decline to review for this journal in the future. My review of the resubmission is below:
The authors have made good faith efforts to engage with the reviewer feedback. Still, many of the points raised are not fully appreciated and addressed. The paper as a whole is rather sprawling and not well focused in its analyses. So many things are analyzed and sliced and diced that it is kind of data-miney—although since despite this mining not a lot of sig results were found with respect to the hypothesis, this is somewhat less concerning. To establish that the null results are valid, two major issues still need to be better addressed. First, the validity of the telomere length measures need to be better established. Second, the potential limitations of comparing Jews to everyone else needs to be more clearly considered.
Below is a partial list of existing problems. Since I am recommending rejection and do not think this should go out for review again, I am not giving a comprehensive list, but mostly focusing on the big things. I hope the authors can try to restructure the analyses to more narrowly address the hypotheses raised.
-TL measures. I am still not fully convinced that TL is being reliably measured. TL declining with age in most groups is re-assuring of external validity, although males having longer TL than females after adjusting for age is a red flag for external validity of measures. Further, TL deviating so much from normality remains a concern. Yes, it is not unusual for other articles to have non-normal distributions and transform them—but this does not mean it is correct. Poor measurement validity is a broad problem in the TL literature. Showing a histogram of distribution of non-transformed values would allow reviewers/readers to better evaluate the extent of the problem. To better establish the external validity of these measures, correlations of TL between relatives needs to be shown.
Measurement error has been acknowledged as a big issue in the telomere biology literature, and especially for qPCR measures. Exacerbating this situation is the recent realization that the conventionally used coefficient of variation measure of error is invalid for telomere lengths (Nettle et al., 2018; Verhulst et al., 2015; Eisenberg, 2016; Verhulst et al., 2016). The authors should report the intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) of repeated measures of the same samples (i.e. mean T/S value across triplicates compared to mean T/S value for same sample run again). This will allow a more accurate gauge of the measurement error of this study and of statistical power. Otherwise, the reader has little ability to gauge whether the measures are valid (although this only establishes internal, not external validity). Also, note that there are several ways to calculate an ICC measure, and the specific algorithm/method used to calculate the ICC needs to be specified and made clear. ICCs of T/S ratios of the same sample are the relevant statistic to asses internal reliability—ICCs of T and S separately may be helpful in diagnostics of the assay but do not tell us much about internal reliability. The most important statistic here is inter-assay ICC to give a good sense for repeatability of measures. Reporting stats of Ct values rather than predicted concentrations based the standard curve is a bad idea and usually serves to artificially deflate measurement error and I don’t think is meaningful or valid given the exponential scale of Ct values. What really matters is the repeatability of T/S measures—i.e. the actual measures used in the final analysis.
The sample including related relatives also presents all sorts of problems for analyses since it violates the non-independence assumption of the statistics used in this paper. Still, I think correcting for the non-independence assumption is mostly likely to decrease statistical power and just make non-sig results even less significant. Regardless, the relatedness structure of the sample needs to be made clear and considered as a strength/limitation of this analysis.
TL varies across populations (e.g. people of African descent have longer TL than people of European descent). As such, comparing Jews with non-jews could be a problem. For example, Ashkenazi Jews might have inherited longer TL than the general Czech population, masking stress effects on TL and making them appear the same. The ancestry of the control sample needs to be better specified and the potential limitation of a non-comparable control group needs to be better considered as a limitation.
People with longer TLs might be more likely to survive the holocaust is an important point which needs to be included more clearly as a caveat in abstract
P9, L11 – This is an interesting finding, although slightly concerns me in that it feels a little ad-hoc and makes me worry that data-mining might have been involved. Regardless, since the under 12 people in 1945 were systematically younger than the over 12 people, this finding is more surprising. I think that after better adjustment for age-effects (not apparently done here despite reviewer insistence that regression controlling for confounders such as age is critical), the effect would be even stronger.
-Despite outlier issue being raised by both reviewers, no sensitivity analysis was conducted to see if excluding the outliers changes results.
-Sex influencing TL is not a good justification for a subgroup analysis. Having a direct effect does not tell us anything about the expectation of having an interaction effect. IF the authors have justification for testing if effects of stress vary by sex, simply doing analyses in each sex separately is incorrect and misleading. Instead, a statistical test of if the effects vary by sex needs to be done (e.g. sex by stressor interaction in regression)
-Title should not include the words homeostasis or dynamics because both suggest types of data not contained in this manuscript (e.g. longitudinal). Causal language also needs to be toned down and the term “affect” is overly presumptuous given the uncertainties involved in observational data analyses like this
-P3, L30 – should say “may play a role”
P4, L31 – integration of Bateson and Nettle into article is poorly done
P7 – initial concentration of diluted DNA sample needs to be given. Please be sure all samples lie within standard curves and exclude samples that don’t. Minor point: GAPDH being good for transcription experiments doesn’t really tell us that it is a good control gene for the TL analysis which is about DNA not RNA.
Manuscript could use a editor/co-author who is stronger in English. The manuscript is very awkwardly phrased in many places
Figure S1 – statistics testing differences in 260/280 term, concentration and DNA quality between all cases and controls should be included, not just representative samples
Eisenberg DT. 2016. Telomere length measurement validity: the coefficient of variation is invalid and cannot be used to compare quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot telomere length measurement techniques. Int J Epidemiol 45(4):1295-1298. Nettle D, Seeker LA, Nussey D, Froy H, Bateson M. 2018. Consequences of measurement error in qPCR telomere data: A simulation study. bioRxiv:491944. Verhulst S, Susser E, Factor-Litvak PR, Simons M, Benetos A, Steenstrup T, Kark JD, Aviv A. 2016. Response to: Reliability and validity of telomere length measurements. Int J Epidemiol 45(4):1298-1301. Verhulst S, Susser E, Factor-Litvak PR, Simons MJ, Benetos A, Steenstrup T, Kark JD, Aviv A. 2015. Commentary: The reliability of telomere length measurements. Int J Epidemiol 44(5):1683-1686.
