The other downside of publishing your work is that you implicitly invite public comment.
and KETO stalkers, harassers, bullying and elementary school behavior.
#9
RE Actinopolyspora Biskrensis: "Unfortunately, I am unable to retrieve the full 1994 article online, so I cannot view the figure in situ."
Here is a link to a PDF of that article; there are only 2 figures, neither of which obviously matches the one you were discussing: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/000331979404501002
Despite that, I agree that the bulk of examples both here and on the following thread clearly raise serious and legitimate concerns about duplicate publication. https://pubpeer.com/publications/DB4CFA060635890B1141E12A98DCD3
Moreover, this discussion at Retraction Watch (both article and comments) is also relevant and enlightening: https://retractionwatch.com/2018/11/13/a-convicted-felon-writes-a-paper-on-hotly-debated-diets-what-could-go-wrong/
KETO stalker, bully and harasser. Name the National TV program when and where you would like to discuss tete-a-tete.
#11
You have failed to adequately address any of the concerns raised here, instead choosing to make ad hominem attacks and speculate on the motives of people who are commenting on your work. It beggars belief that you think anyone pointing out these obvious, and fundamental lapses in publishing ethics on your part is somehow warranting of "recommending prosecution" [sic], but would certainly love to hear some more expert legal opinion from you Dr. Fleming on what basis you think this should be.
I understand this is embarrassing for you, but you're just making it worse. The publisher has been notified of this thread.
I'm not embarrassed by exposing the lies of Big Pharma the lies which occurred. I am ready. Let's expose your bullying.
#15
This has nothing to do with Keto vs Big Pharma vs whoever, or whatever conspiracy you seem to think is going on. This has everything to do with the obvious ethical shortcomings in your publishing practices; undisclosed duplicate publication would be a serious ethical lapse regardless of the authors or research topic. Please stay on point in the future, thanks.
Nothing shortcoming about my copyrights being used by myself. You're just unhappy about what is being published. You are a KETO stalker trying to bully and harass your way. You undoubtedly will never be part of the bigger most important work of trying to improve Medicine or advancing medical knowledge.
Demonstrably incorrect. The policy of the "Journal of Nuclear Medicine & Radiation Therapy" states that:
"An author should not repeat any previous research data from themselves or anyone else while submitting an original manuscript for a primary publication in any of the journal."
This is what you have done.
Further, the Creative Commons 3.0 licence applicable to the IntechOpen chapter requires attribution:
"Attribution — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made."
You have not done any of these things regarding the duplicated data you re-published in the 2018 paper.
This is very simple and factual. I'm sorry you'd rather leap to unjustified conclusions rather than address these issues; hopefully when the publisher follows up with you, you'll feel inclined to be more honest and cooperative with them.
Nothing shortcoming about my copyrights being used by myself. You're just unhappy about what is being published. You are a KETO stalker trying to bully and harass your way. You undoubtedly will never be part of the bigger most important work of trying to improve Medicine or advancing medical knowledge. Name the National TV program when and where you would like to discuss tete-a-tete.
But being a coward isn't so hide behind the name of a fungus and refuse to face me in public televised debate. Who you are is showing....
#14
Lyophyllum, you are correct on all counts. The author's responses are largely misdirection, and do not cogently address the substance of the critiques.
Separately, the publisher might also want to consider whether this paper should have included a financial Conflict of Interest statement, which appears to be relevant (given proprietary methods, etc.) and yet is absent from the published document.
#18
Unfortunately, I’m not sure that the journals that have published Dr. Fleming’s recent papers care about ethics. From what I can see, most or all have been identified elsewhere as predatory or low quality journals that will publish almost everything as long as they are paid. It will be interesting to see what happens with the FTC suit against one of these publishers, the one which published Dr. Fleming’s 2018 paper; it seems to have gone quiet almost a year ago.
https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/cases-proceedings/152-3113/federal-trade-commission-v-omics-group-inc
#21
Leucanella - did you know that Richard M Fleming is on the Editorial Board of this “journal”?
https://www.omicsonline.org/editorialboard-nuclear-medicine-radiation-therapy-open-access.php
The list of citations in this paper is interesting. 12 out of 17 have RM Fleming as 1st author
