The real issue here is what these vapers would have done in the absence of vaping - and it is hard to know that because there isn't an alternative Australia with no vaping that can be used for comparison. In this counterfactual world, they may have progressed straight to smoking. We cannot assume that they would have never smoked. Nor can we assume that their propensity to smoke is created by their vaping experience rather than being the reason they vape to start with.
At the heart of the problem with the interpretation of the findings is the concept of 'common liability'. This means that the reasons why young people vape can be quite similar to the reason that they smoke... something we would expect, given that the two behaviours have many things in common, other than harm to health. These common reasons to both vape and smoke could be to do with the parental and home environment, mental health, stress, genetics, educational attainment, delinquency, social circle, self-efficacy, self-esteem, other substance use, etc.
The authors have implied the findings show a gateway effect, for example in the press release from Curtin University: E-cigarette users at greater risk of turning to traditional smoking:
Lead author Dr Michelle Jongenelis, from the School of Psychology at Curtin University, said recent calls to relax current Australian regulations related to e-cigarettes could result in an increase in the use of conventional cigarettes, especially among young adults.
The study provides no evidence to support that claim, which implies the link between vaping and smoking is causal, even though the paper correctly states in its limitations section that this type of study cannot establish causality.
In a study like this, it is impossible to separate out the common independent causal factors mentioned above from any influence of the vaping behaviour itself. If you are trying to isolate the effect of actual e-cigarette use, these other common causes are "confounders". The authors claim to have "controlled for covariates", but that is not the same as eliminating confounding. They really cannot eliminate confounding, because they only have the variables ("the covariates") they happened to collect, and unless these can perfectly characterise the reasons for vaping/smoking, then they cannot exclude residual "confounding" by these common causes. It is an error often made in studies purporting to show gateway effects to assume that adjusting for covariates is the same as eliminating confounding, but it never is and never can be.
The results are wholly unsurprising: .
Results. Curiosity about tobacco smoking, willingness to smoke, and intentions to smoke were significantly higher among users of e-cigarettes than never users. The relationship between e-cigarette use and susceptibility to future tobacco cigarette use remained significant after controlling for numerous covariates.
But we would expect this - e-cigarette use is a marker of a certain kind of person and that kind of person is also likely to be interested in smoking. People who are inclined to be interested in tobacco/nicotine will be more interested in both vaping and smoking. For a more academic treatment of this common liability concept, please see:
Phillips C V. Gateway Effects: Why the Cited Evidence Does Not Support Their Existence for Low-Risk Tobacco Products (and What Evidence Would). Int J Environ Res Public Health 2015 (here).
Vanyukov, et al. Common liability to addiction and “gateway hypothesis” theoretical, empirical and evolutionary perspective. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2012. (here).
The latter concludes:
Whereas the “gateway” hypothesis does not specify mechanistic connections between “stages”, and does not extend to the risks for addictions, the concept of common liability to addictions incorporates sequencing of drug use initiation as well as extends to related addictions and their severity, provides a parsimonious explanation of substance use and addiction co-occurrence, and establishes a theoretical and empirical foundation to research in etiology, quantitative risk and severity measurement, as well as targeted non-drug-specific prevention and early intervention.
Such an alternative explanation would be even more parsimonious when the supposed gateway was to the same drug but in a different delivery system. Nevertheless, the authors reach for the gateway hypothesis in their own conclusion.
Conclusion. E-cigarette use, even just one or two puffs, has the potential to increase susceptibility to tobacco cigarette use among Australian young adults. Findings suggest that increasing the availability of e-cigarettes by relaxing current strict regulations surrounding their sale may have unintended consequences.
"Just one or two puffs". It is a self-evidently heroic claim that such negligible exposure can have this effect. In fact, this finding points to the real underlying cause. It isn't the "one or two puffs" that did it, it is the reasons that they took the first one or two puffs in the first place that matter. And those reasons predict for smoking too.
Of course, the paper contains the obligatory nod to its critical 'limitation'
First, the data were cross-sectional in nature and causality cannot be assumed.
But though this reality about cross-sectional studies has been acknowledged, the authors revert to their chosen interpretation in the conclusions:
The results of this study support previous findings indicating that ecigarette use may contribute to the initiation of smoking-related behaviours among young adult non-smokers and has the potential to contribute to the development of a new population of tobacco cigarette smokers
The study does not do this. In fact, there is a possible hopeful message in this data: that vaping will appeal mainly to those who would otherwise smoke and less to others. For those who smoke, it may meet some of their needs and ultimately displace smoking.
