I enjoyed reading this experimental field study on the effects of underwater noise produced by small boats on the long-snouted seahorse. I think studies like this are very valuable as they can give a much needed look into real-world effects of the human impact on the environment. Because for this type of study good experimental design is essential I was hoping the authors could clarify a couple things regarding their experimental design and interpretation of the results. They have probably already thought about this, but it wasn't clear to me from the paper.
For the in situ part the seahorses were filmed during two different treatments with boating noise. Each animal was exposed to both treatments, resulting in three different time intervals (1, 2, 3 minutes). Opercular movements per minute were then compared to those of captive animals. (Q1) Was it not possible to film animals for one or two minutes before noise exposure to get a baseline for each individual animal? It seems like this would have resulted in a stronger experimental design.
To follow on from this. Seahorses were observed to leave the site in 37.5% of the cases when they responded to the noise (as indicated by a change in OMPM). Unfortunately no comparison was made here to background movement. It is mentioned that seahorses show high site fidelity, but this is not quantified. (Q2) Is it possible that the movement of the seahorses was, in part, due to the diver installing the camera? (Or some other part of the experimental design?)
I was also a little surprised that nothing was reported on seahorses returning to the site after noise had ceased. (Q3) Is it possible that after the boat had stopped the seahorses returned to their previous site?
Overall differences in opercular movements per minute (OMPM) between males and females were observed. It was also noted that most males were 'pregnant'. Although briefly mentioned in the paper that the difference in OMPM could be due to the 'pregnant' males, (Q4) was it possible to statistically compare OMPM between 'pregnant' and 'non-pregnant' males and confirm this?
Thank you so much for your appreciation of the study and also for your questions which I gladly will try to answer them. As for (Q1) “Was it not possible to film animals for one or two minutes before noise exposure to get a baseline for each individual animal? It seems like this would have resulted in a stronger experimental design.” That could eventually be done prior to the sound exposure, however, as that had to be done in the wild, and no matter that was considered a relatively quiet area, there is always a residual background noise that could bias the data and that’s why we decided to get the control data as we did. “(Q2) Is it possible that the movement of the seahorses was, in part, due to the diver installing the camera? (Or some other part of the experimental design?).” No, because if any signs of distress were noted during the gear installation (which toke just a brief moments) that animal was discarded and was not observed. “(Q3) Is it possible that after the boat had stopped the seahorses returned to their previous site?” That is possible, but really difficult to confirm, because site abandon was noted on the images and not in real time by the diver who didn’t had the seahorse in his visual field during the observation period to avoid any kind of distress to the observed fish. Nonetheless, seahorse site fidelity is related to the habitat, a specific area with environmental qualities that grant them an adequate place to live on, not to a specific holdfast. “(Q4) was it possible to statistically compare OMPM between 'pregnant' and 'non-pregnant' males and confirm this? ” Unfortunately no, because as most of the males were “pregnant”, the number of “non-pregnant” males was quite small and not statistically relevant to allow a reliable statistical analysis.
