#2, #3
Professor Bik, you raise many legitimate concerns.
Regarding IRB approval:
Unfortunately it is not clear which institution is relevant here. The affiliation of the first author, Mr. Fleming, is "The Camelot Foundation", which does not appear to have a fixed location but has over the years migrated from Nebraska to California. Papers in 2017-2018 alternately list the location as Studio City or El Segundo, CA. In separate forums, a commenter was unable to get Mr. Fleming to clarify whether the Camelot Foundation is indeed currently registered with the State of California as a 501(c)(3), as claimed. Links here: https://retractionwatch.com/2018/11/13/a-convicted-felon-writes-a-paper-on-hotly-debated-diets-what-could-go-wrong/ http://hopefulgeranium.blogspot.com/2018/09/egregious-richard-m-fleming-story_30.html?m=1
Perhaps if the authors are not forthcoming on this question, the IRBs relevant to the other two authors could be contacted: OUHSC: https://compliance.ouhsc.edu/hrpp/OUHSC EVMS: https://www.evms.edu/research/human_subjects_protection/
Regarding references:
It remains unclear if the eponymous method described here, FMTVDM ("Fleming Method...."), has been reproduced or confirmed by anyone other than Mr. Fleming. This uncertainty is exacerbated by the lack of transparency inherent in the proprietary and patented nature of the methodology and data, as discussed in a related thread (https://pubpeer.com/publications/9735188839595F74B5999FE1C4165F). Perhaps one of the authors here might be able to clarify whether this method has been been subject to any independent validation.
A search of IRS records for Camelot found three Camelot Foundation listings, none of which are currently active, and none of which were in California.
A search of California records for a Camelot charity failed to find the Camelot Foundation
As I have stated every other time you have played this childish game; whenever you want to appear on National TV, I will gladly discuss these studies.
As noted in other threads, the first author is listed as a member of the editorial board of this journal, which does not appear to be disclosed in the article.
Although the patent for the method discussed is referenced in the article, the first author's ownership and active licensing efforts of the patent do not appear to be disclosed. No financial or funding disclosures of any type appear to be included in the article.
I note too that this article is identified as a Research Article (rather than a Review Article) although it does not appear to contain original data or images.
The first author again identifies The Camelot Foundation as his affiliated institution in his Editorial Board consent letter. Concerns mentioned in #4 and #5 above remain.
The text "In comparing 100 women, we were delighted to have the additional diagnostic support of several surgeons including Dr. William Dooley, who provided biopsy and ductoscopy information in some of the women. The additional value of this work emphasizes the value of his ductoscopy procedure for obtaining tissue without breast incision, to compare with BEST and mammography," appears to be the only reference to a currently active institution where the procedures were performed (Division of Surgical Oncology, Oklahoma University Health Science Center, Oklahoma, USA). Information about that institution's research ethics and policies can be viewed here: https://research.ouhsc.edu/Vice-President/Reporting-of-Scientific-and-Scholarly-Misconduct
Although the journal's publication policies seem poorly written and disorganized, the Guidelines on Retractions section states, "Encouraging academic integrity. Request evidence of ethical research approval for all relevant submissions and be prepared to question authors about aspects, such as, how patient consent was obtained or what methods were employed to minimize animal suffering. Ensure that reports of clinical trials cite compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki 6th revision, Good Clinical Practice and other relevant guidelines to safeguard participant." As Dr. Bik noted in #2, patient consent does not appear to be disclosed or discussed.
As I have stated every other time you have played this childish game; whenever you want to appear on National TV, I will gladly discuss these studies.
I will gladly discuss these items with you on National Television, Mr. Fleming.
Good. Set it up Ms. Bik.
In preparation for our interview, I have some additional questions.
Several of the figures in this 2017 paper look unexpectedly similar to papers published in 2002. Yet, this paper is presented as a research paper, suggesting it has new results to show. In fact, the abstract states that "A series of investigations were conducted over an 18-year period of time looking at more than 1000 women and men suspected of having breast tissue abnormalities"
Could the authors comment on the unexpected similarities in Figures 2,3,4,5,6,7,8 and 10 with those published more than a decade ago?
