Happy to pitch in here, and under my full name. I stand with almost all comments that are concerned about the reuse of images in this publication.
Re-using images in this journal (and in pretty much any other scientific journal) is in conflict with the journal's guidelines as stated here: https://www.omicsonline.org/publication-policies-and-ethics.php#authors
"An author should not repeat any previous research data from themselves or anyone else while submitting an original manuscript for a primary publication in any of the journal. " and " Through the submission of an article the respective authors agrees that the article neither is under consideration nor published in any other journal."
In addition, I cannot find a "conflict of interest" statement. Because the first author published this under the name of a company (https://rmfmd71.wixsite.com/fhhi-omnific), and might make money with his described methods, this also seems to be in disagreement with the Instructions for the authors. They clearly state: "Any financial or personal interest that governs the findings or research in the manuscript along with the details of financial support and its sources should be revealed."
Your comments are inappropriate and do not reflect the correct position of this paper relative to the author guidelines. Please pay attention to the following: Review Articles
Review articles are written based mostly on secondary data that is falling in line with the theme of the journal. They are brief, yet critical discussions on a specific aspect of the subject concerned. Reviews generally start with the statement of the problem with a brief abstract of 300 words and few key words. Introduction generally brings the issue forward to the readers followed by analytical discussion with the help of necessary tables, graphs, pictures and illustrations wherever necessary. It summarizes the topic with a conclusion. All the statements or observations in the review articles must be based on necessary citations, providing complete reference at the end of the article. Commentaries
Commentaries are opinion articles written mostly by the veteran and experienced writers on a specific development, recent innovation or research findings that fall in line with the theme of the journal. They are very brief articles with the title and abstract that provides the gist of the topic to be discussed, with few key words. It straight away states the problems and provides a thorough analysis with the help of the illustrations, graphs and tables if necessary. It summarizes the topic with a brief conclusion, citing the references at the end.
