#3
Total AKT serve as loading control in S4F. It is normal to do this so total AKT should have the same pattern with HSC70 more or less.
#6
Total AKT may serve as a loading control only if the membrane was stripped, and reprobed for pAKT. In this case AKT and pAKT bands should be similar (not like here). AKT and pAKT MW is 55-56kDa, HSC70 MW is 70-73 kDa. Is it really possible that AKT overlaps with HSC70, as it does in Figure 2?
#4
"How was it possible normalize the levels between two blots? (I also post the figure below) Levels between two separate blots?"
I think you know how it is possible. You may prefer to do p-Akt and Akt it on the same blot. Which is fine but not the only way to do it.
Some people prefer them on different blots made from gels loaded with equal amounts of protein. This is also possible (obviously you know), and acceptable. It even has some advantages if you think about it.
#8
"Some people prefer them on different blots made from gels loaded with equal amounts of protein."
That is right. But proper loading controls are needed for both blots. The discussion here is about the lack of these loading controls.
Previously we have found that stripping a western blot of the first antibody and subsequently reprobing with another antibody leads to many false negative and various artefacts in our chemiluminescent detection method, especially if you are re-probing the same protein. For example stripping and subsequent reprobing with antibodies detecting entirely different proteins e.g. ERK and GAPDH in same membrane may be possible. In contrast if you are probing same protein eg. ERK with two different antibody (total vs phospho) we in our experience have found such a process prone to cross reactivity, artefacts and false negatives which in turn makes quantitation difficult and unreliable. This limitations of stripping and reprobing western blot membrane has been highlighted by various sources including researchers and companies selling biological reagents as seen below. To support our arguments I have taken the liberty to cite various reports including from some reputable companies that sell antibodies (biorad, Abcam, Advansta etc). These reports suggest that stripping and reprobing although may be useful for qualitative purposes it is not always a reliable way of doing western blots especially if it involves quantitative analysis.
Text excerpt from Biorad “Blots can be stripped and reprobed several times but each round of stripping removes some sample from the blot. This decreases the sensitivity of subsequent rounds of detection and may necessitate longer exposure times or more sensitive detection methods” (http://www.bio-rad.com/en-au/applications-technologies/stripping-reprobing).
Text excerpt from Advansta “Traditional Stripping Doesn’t Pay with Western Blots” (https://advansta.com/stripping-doesnt-pay-western-blots/).
Text excerpt from Abcam “Stripping is useful when one wants to investigate more than one protein on the same blot, for instance a protein of interest (eg. ERK) and a loading control (GAPDH). When probing for multiple targets, stripping and re-probing a single membrane instead of running and blotting multiple gels have the advantage of saving samples, materials, and time. It is not advisable to make quantitative comparisons of targets probed before and after stripping since the procedure removes some sample protein from the membrane. For the same reason, a stripped membrane should not be probed to demonstrate the absence of a protein” (http://www.abcam.com/protocols/western-blot-membrane-stripping-for-restaining-protocol).
Text excerpt from Merckmillipore “The Re-Blot™ Plus Western Blot Recycling Kit should be used only for qualitative purposes until it has been established by comparative blot analysis that stripping does not quantitatively affect a given antigen (http://www.merckmillipore.com/AU/en/life-science-research/protein-detection quantification/westernblotting/protocols/q9ib.qB.710AAAFBRP0RRkww,nav?bd=1)
Therefore to avoid the pitfalls of stripping and reprobing the alternative approach is to run two gels simultaneously using the same cell extracts. Following the transfer we probe one membrane with antibody against total protein and second membrane with antibody against phospho protein. Finally a densitometry analysis is performed of the band density taking a ratio of phospho over total protein using.
I would argue that the approach of running two gels simultaneously using the same cell extracts is no better or worse compared to stripping and probing procedure.
Comment #10 is accurate. It is crazy to see people try to bring down the work of others based on the argument that the quantification of a phospho-blot is only acceptable when a membrane is stripped and reprobed for total. Stripping is not a perfect and clean process and it is common to get background signal and false positive using this approach.
I agree with Commenters 10 and 11. Stripping/reprobing, OR parallel blots are both acceptable. But if you choose run parallel blots for AKT and pAKT, you need 2 loading controls. 1 for AKT and 1 for pAKT. In the article only 1 loading control is shown. (In some figures loading controls are missing completely.)
Western blots from two other papers of the same group have been discussed:
Increased survival and cell cycle progression pathways are required for EWS/FLI1-induced malignant transformation (loading control may have been duplicated after a possible size adjustment)
Apoptosis protection by the Epo target Bcl-X(L) allows factor-independent differentiation of primary erythroblasts (various bands may have been duplicated)
I see some methodological short comings with the controls and clearly the quality of the blots could be better. However, working with tissues from mice is not the same as working on cell culture, variability is an intrinsic problem. Therefore the Figure 2 legend indicates the blots are merely a representative example, whatever this may mean.
The quantifications shown in Figure 2 are clearly the relevant data and I do not see that the discussion here leads anywhere questioning the conclusions of the paper or even indicating bad scientific practice. In my opinion you are discussing minor technical shortcomings without any relevance to the papers conclusions.
#14 "some methodological short comings with the controls and clearly the quality of the blots could be better." But it is not a seminar talk of a first year student. It was published in a leading journal of diabetes, listing prominent authors of the field and at least one editor of one top metabolism journal. Sorry, if me, as a reader, expect more sound scientific evidence for the rather strong statements of this paper.
“In the above-mentioned article, the following errors were detected: In Fig. 2C displaying AKT and phosphorylated AKT (pAKT) expression in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) and liver, the AKT immunoblotting was not the corresponding blot to the pAKT. The authors are replacing this figure with the corresponding total AKT in the liver and providing a blot repeat of the eWAT, where all antibodies were probed on the same membrane. The authors recalculated this blot accordingly with similar findings to that previously published. In Fig. 6E, AKT and pAKT were not shown on the same gel. The authors repeated this Western blot and detected AKT and pAKT on the same immunoblot. The recalculated data are now shown in a revised Fig. 6E. In online Supplementary Fig. 4F, the authors now present the respective loading control, using Actin expression analysis together with that for AKT and pAKT. The authors apologize for any inconvenience caused to the readers. The online version has been updated to correct these errors”. This admits the errors discussed above.
2018 correction. http://diabetes.diabetesjournals.org/content/67/2/343
