#11
Dr. Bik, your willingness to discuss these issues publicly is admirable.
That said, I think there is a valid concern that this "invitation" is just more misdirection by the author and a further attempt to side-step the issues at hand.
Thus far, both here and in other threads and forums, the author has failed to answer a wide variety of straightforward and legitimate questions. Examples include: (i) Was IRB approval obtained for this study? If so, from what institution? (ii) Did patients consent to the use of their results in this publication? (iii) Was a Conflict of Interest statement, which is absent from the published paper, provided to the journal in advance of this publication? (iv) Is the Camelot Foundation currently registered with the State of California?
There is little reason to believe that the author would be any more forthcoming in answering these simple questions (let alone more difficult ones) on "National TV".
It is also difficult to imagine that any national television forum would be interested in hosting a discussion of this author's repeated failure to adhere to norms of publication ethics, and to answer questions thereof.
.
We have repeatedly responded to these comments and attacks. You present your questions from the position of someone who seems to believe you have a position of respect and authority to which we must respond. The process of publication is peer reviewed and regulated by the journals; not by you. Our obligation is to satisfy that, not you. While you have obviously decided to continue this exercise to inflate your sense of self worth, we have no obligations to you. We will, however, as stated previously, be happy to address you and your questions on national TV, where we can address you, Big Pharma, the Diet stalkers, your fear of identifying yourself, your COIs and a series of other issues we are more than prepared to talk about. This is being placed here for the record.
#15
"We have repeatedly responded to these comments..."
The obvious problem is that the responses have generally failed to address the substance of the questions. This is true even for simple, easy to answer, Yes-or-No type questions, such as the four examples above in comment #14.
The same pattern of evasion was evident in another forum, where no clarification could be obtained for even the simplest of questions, such as: (a) do you or do you not have a Ph.D. in Particle Physics? and, (b) do you have four separate undergraduate degrees or only one undergraduate degree? (see: https://retractionwatch.com/2018/11/13/a-convicted-felon-writes-a-paper-on-hotly-debated-diets-what-could-go-wrong/ )
Without such answers, other scientists or interested parties must draw conclusions according to the information available. In many cases, such as those in this thread and concerning this manuscript, the most conservative interpretation may be to view Fleming's claims with extreme skepticism, until further evidence can attest to their veracity. Examples would include the seeming inconsistencies among the numbers of patients analyzed, as highlighted in comment #1, or the complete absence of information regarding adherence to ethical guidelines for patient-related research, as highlighted in comments #2 and #7.
#15 In response, please see the comments below regarding the FTC suit vs. OMICS Group., and sham "peer review."
https://pubpeer.com/publications/A26D63812630A01A6A92109334CD08#13 https://pubpeer.com/publications/A26D63812630A01A6A92109334CD08#14
https://pubpeer.com/publications/6DDEF3C8AAA2B0E1D726ECBEAA3CBC#6
As pointed out in this other discussion, a 1 day turn over between submission and acceptance indicate a very thorough peer review and editorial screening. I can only applaud the dedication of the editors and reviewers. because I'm naive, I cannot imagine the author, being the editor, being the reviewer...
#2
None of the patients mentioned were from OUHSC or in clinical trials at OUHSC. The information shared was from studies prior to my faculty appointment at OUSC and relates to participation in multiple other studies on related topics where the relevant information was published meeting all appropriate standards. The reflections about data accumulated in a variety of settings over many years allows us now to re-interpret given new collective insights not necessarily apparent when individual studies were initially performed.
Thank you for your reply, Dr. Dooley.
If none of the patients mentioned here were from OUHSC, it remains unclear where the data from the ~1000 patients mentioned in this study then came from. Could you please answer our questions at which institution(s) (hospital, clinic, university etc.) these patients' data were obtained?
Also, how does your reply in #19 match this sentence from the paper: "In comparing 100 women, we were delighted to have the additional diagnostic support of several surgeons including Dr. William Dooley, who provided biopsy and ductoscopy information in some of the women. "
It seems you have done some invasive procedures on at least 100 of these women. If that was not done at OUHSC, where did you do that?
It is of concern that you published patient data without any statement about where those studies were conducted, and without any information about proper IRB protocols and patient consent, and that you have not been able to share this information.
You have made incorrect assumptions. The few patients that I shared with Dr. Fleming were surgically treated at Johns Hopkins. The imaging seen was done by Fleming at a separate institution. Clinical and research investigations at Hopkins helped to reveal an understanding of what he was seeing and the clinical significance. Most of the experience is from multiple other surgeons and clinical providers at multiple locations.
#20
Dr. Bik:
While I would agree that it could be much clearer and more explicit, the language in the paper and in Dr. Dooley's response both seem to suggest to me that Dr. Dooley did not perform the procedures, but rather he had access to the data/information from previous procedures, and that he then "provided" (or "shared") that information for re-analysis in this paper.
That interpretation seems to reconcile the apparent discrepancy, but obviously he is in the best position to clarify/confirm that view.
(Edit: note that this comment was written before the appearance of Dooley's further reply in #21; after seeing that, I am unsure if this interpretation is correct or incorrect. Dooley says "patients I shared" were "surgically treated at Johns Hopkins", but it is not clear if he did the surgery or someone else did. Pretty confusing.)
#21
Thank you Dr. Dooley.
Was the sharing of a "few patients" with Dr. Fleming (at least 16 years prior to publication) the extent of your involvement with this study or can you help address some of the other concerns expressed above?
One of the challenge for readers of this paper has been the lack of clarity around the origin of the data since most (or all) of the figures and tables do not cite a different study, implying that the data is being reported here for the first time.
Dr. Dooley - I appreciate that contributing to this conversation may be difficult for you given that from the "first person" phrasing in the paper, Dr. Fleming may have been the primary researcher for the studies discussed in the paper. That said, agreeing to be listed as a co-author suggests at a minimum that you have responsibility for some portion of the work and that you agree with the methodology and conclusions.
If you only participated in a small portion of the clinical research almost 2 decades ago, on what basis do you support the paper's conclusion that Fleming's method,
"...provides the first and only quantitative method, which can differentiate tissues based upon changes in measurements obtained from this patented method (sic) . As such, it can detect changes in tissue leading to breast cancer allowing for greater treatment opportunities, as well as monitoring outcomes of treatment for breast cancer and other abnormalities (e.g. fibrocystic disease). FMTVDM-BEST Imaging works independent of whether the patient has dense breast tissue, breast implants, is on HRT, smokes or has undergone previous treatment in both men and women. (sic)"
This strongly-worded conclusion implies that the authors share a close familiarity with the greater effectiveness of the proprietary imaging process in comparison with alternative processes.
Another strongly-worded sentence of this paper reads, "The method allows for detection of disease previously missed, the detection of changes leading up to cancer and critical CAD and the ability to quantitatively determine if treatment is working or if alternative treatment is indicated." (emphasis added). Previous papers co-authored by you suggest similarly superior results when using Fleming's imaging methodology.
Given the statements regarding the Fleming method's effectiveness, it seems that you would be eager to use the method to treat your cancer patients. Yet, your reply in #19 ("None of the patients mentioned were from OUHSC or in clinical trials at OUHSC") suggests that you have never used this method; or at least not after you were added to the faculty at OUHSC 18 years ago.
Can you provide additional details to help clarify these apparent inconsistencies?
