In this study, the authors associate aspects of infant temperament with taxa of the infant fecal microbiota.
While a number of potential confounds exist with the conclusions, some of which are described by the authors in this article (Section: Limitations of the study), the authors attempt to explain why their results contrast with that of a previous study on the same research topic as follows:
“Further, previous work by Carlson et al. noted that the Bacteroides-dominated community type at the age of one year would predict better cognitive development at the age of two years (Carlson et al., 2017). The report by Carlson et al. seems contradictory to our finding of Bacteroides-dominated cluster associating with lower regulation, as even very early regulation reportedly predicts better cognitive development (Canals et al., 2011). However, research on the relations between GMC and infant early temperament traits are in fact lacking, hampering the comparability with earlier studies.”
For the interested reader, the Carlson et al. 2017 study is: A.L. Carlson, K. Xia, M.A. Azcarate-Peril, B.D. Goldman, M. Ahn, M.A. Styner, A.L. Thompson, X. Geng, J.H. Gilmore, R.C. Knickmeyer. Infant Gut microbiome associated with cognitive development. Biological Psychiatry (2017).
A major limitation when comparing 16s studies is that often the collection and processing of microbiota samples (in this case, infant feces), and aspects related to sequencing, such as choice of hypervariable region are completely different, likely making for very different outcomes, thereby limiting the predictive power of correlational studies such as these.
This is important because, as authors in the current study note, there is very little research looking into associations between the infant microbiota and temperament.
Some differences not mentioned between the studies include:
Choice of hypervariable region -Aatsinki et al. chose V4 and Carlson et al. chose V1-V2. Choice of hypervariable region can give amplification bias, and skew communities identified and thus muddle diversity metrics.
Sample storage conditions
-Aatsinki et al. indicates “Parents collected approximately 200 mg of fecal material from a single diaper, placed it in a tube filled with Allprotect reagent (Valencia, CA), and returned it through overnight shipping.”
Carlson et al. “Parents collected the stool samples at 2.5 months of age at their homes into collection tubes, following both oral instructions upon recruitment and written instructions provided with sampling equipment. Parents were instructed to store the samples immediately at +4 °C, mark the date and time of the sample taking, and bring the sample to the laboratory as soon as possible and within 24 h after which the DNA was extracted from the samples.”
The use of DNA protectants, storage condition and temperature are well known to impact bacterial viability and influence microbial taxa composition.
Absence of negative/positive controls. -Both studies failed to include negative controls that would help indicate environmental contamination.
This is important as Bacteroides is only a genus, and Bacteroides is
found on, for example, human skin. Both studies should have controlled for parent
sample contamination through a mock diaper or mock collection. -Both studies did not include mock microbial communities as a positive control to check for sequencing error.
Hence, from a methodological standpoint it seems improper to compare the Carlson et al. 2017 study to the current study. And the conclusions of both studies (i.e. which microbial taxa associate or predict what infant/toddler temperament) should be contextualized within the unavoidable technological biases of the methodologies used in each respective study.
