The brain-specific Src-like kinase Fyn makes an unholy alliance with PrP in Alzheimer's? Plausible enough, in a neuronally disregulatory disease, one might think?

Nevertheless certain colourful gel-based figures in this paper are worth examining at the highest available resolution, for which the publisher is to be thanked. Alzheimer's researchers may choose to follow this link, then clicking to maximum resolution:

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3568961/figure/F2/

To establish the case for close scrutiny, let us begin at the lower right gel, lanes 3 and 4. The upper half of the two lanes are identical. Yet, the lower half of the two lanes are not identical. The line of divergence aligns roughly with the IgGH labelling arrow.

Moving to the Fig. 2 upper right pair of IP gels, these are mostly both the same except for (a) a difference of exposure (stronger to the left) and (b) the existence of bands in IP 6E10 that are not found in IP PrPc (see lanes 3, 4). Also worth noting is the shortened yet sharply angled "sAbeta" band to the right when all other lanes are straight.

At the risk of revealing linguistic insufficiency, Peer 1 confesses to being unable to understand the text in the Fig.1D legend. Even so, in the lower left pair of vertically aligned western blots, it is clear that, in the second lane, the indicated IgG of the upper version is differently cropped and less exposed but otherwise the same IgG blot as in the lane below. It is also clear that the bands indicated as 2-mer in lanes 4 and 5 in the upper and lower gels do not have meaningful morphological similarity. This is to say that the lane 2 and lane 4/5 data cannot be reconciled when comparing the upper and lower blots.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3568961/figure/F4/

Fig. 4B left gel lane has most - but not all - of the attributes of Fig. 2D right gel, left lane. Noteworthy differences are: the exposure; the lowest band in the Fig. 2D lane that has not only the wrong profile but also doesn't exist in Fig. 4B; and the shifted labelling arrows marking 1-, 2-, 3-mers.

As the publication is from late-2012, and this post is from mid-2013, all the original data generated by each of the co-authors must still exist due to the usual legal requirements. And, in the opinion of Peer 1, these original data should be both useful and informative regarding the role of the brain-specific Src-like kinase Fyn in Alzheimer's.
I just skimmed Peer 1's comments and image concerns and share several of the concerns.
