I appreciate your reply, Dr. Dooley. I first was not sure if you had written the whole text of the comment yourself, or if you were quoting text taken from the journal's website, but it seems it was the latter. Quotation marks would have been very helpful here.
However, I am not sure how the quoted guidelines apply here. The paper we are discussing here is a Research Paper, not a Review Paper. In addition, neither the "Review Articles" or "Commentaries" guidelines say you can reuse images. Can you help me understand why we should pay attention to these guidelines?
In reviewing Ms. Bik's history, it is clear that she has a record of continuing to attack the work of people she disagrees with and perhaps, work which might be used to investigate the claims of her company. Sher purports herself as Editorial Director of UBiome which claims to be a machine learning AI. Given the proprietary data of FMTVDM and its AI (machine quantification teaching machine quantification), it is now clear why she would attack that which is competing with her company. Respectfully, Dr. (not Mr.) Fleming.
Dr. Fleming: regardless of the motivation of people identifying potential flaws in your published papers, the potential flaws remain.
Is it your professional opinion that the reuse of the images and text in multiple papers is ethical and in accordance with the publication guidelines of the journals identified in this thread?
As I have repeatedly said, these "potential flaws" are actually not "flaws". The use of images which are copyrighted to me, in the discussion of decades of work, is entirely in keeping with the journals which have published the papers. If one has an actual legitimate question(s) about something which is published, one writes a LTE. If that LTE is credible and worth publishing, and adds something to the literature, it too will be published in the applicable journal. What I have seen here and elsewhere on social media is not a scientific discussion and I see why many people refuse to participate in this as it sucks time away from work that needs to be done. You can address criticisms of my work when you have conducted almost four decades of longitudinal work and have contributed to the field accordingly. The motives of people attacking my work is entirely pertinent. What is proprietary will remain proprietary as will the AI.
Dr. Fleming: “Longitudinal” is generally used to describe research measuring the same variables over an extended period of time. Here, you seem to be publishing the same images and results repeatedly (for decades?).
If you are claiming that you have done decades of research work, then why not publish original images to illustrate that work?
In reality, I suspect it is difficult for you to legally perform original research on human subjects given that your licenses to practice medicine were suspended.
