Using the R package statcheck (v1.0.1), the HTML version of this article was scanned on 2016-08-05 for statistical results (t, r, F, Chi2, and Z values) reported in APA format (for specifics, see Nuijten et al., 2015). An automatically generated report follows.

The scan detected 12 statistical results in APA format, of which 0 contained potentially incorrect statistical results, of which 0 may change statistical significance (alpha = .05). Potential one-tailed results were taken into account when 'one-sided', 'one-tailed', or 'directional' occurred in the text.

Note that these are not definitive results and require manual inspection to definitively assess whether results are erroneous.

Reference
Nuijten, M. B., Hartgerink, C. H. J., van Assen, M. A. L. M., Epskamp, S., & Wicherts, J. M. (2015). The prevalence of statistical reporting errors in psychology (1985-2013). Behavior Research Methods. http://dx.doi.org/10.3758/s13428-015-0664-2
While going over the results, I found several parts about the analysis which are unclear or require more explanation with the presented analyses:
The first design (p. 381 left column) is given as a 4x4 design with N=1859-22=1837. The first F-statistic is reported as F(3,1822), but from a 4x4 design with interactions, one would expect F(3,1821). However, the reported statistic is correct, as one cell is missing (PWQ did not exist in the first decade). Also, this means, that the reported statistic for the interaction with F(8,1822) instead of F(9,1822) is correct. The reported data seems to be correct, but this could have been made more clear.
The second analysis (p. 381 left column) is based on the same design with a different dependent variable. Here the first F-statistic is reported as F(3, 1441), so it seems some data was excluded. It would be interesting to know if and why some of the articles were excluded. One could guess that these studies did not provide the required information, but it would be good to be sure.
On page 381 right column under the heading "Androcentric Pronoun Use" the design is reported as 4x4x3x2, but the first F-statistic is reported as F(3,355). The error df can only be explained by missing cells (as in the previous analysis), but from the provided information it is unclear which cells were missing.
On page 382 (left column, under the heading "Verbal Descriptions and Explanations of Gender Differences") the design is given as "A 4x4x3x2x2 ANOVA was conducted with decade, journal, salience of gender differences, and first author’s gender as within-subjects factors and the gender group referenced (females vs. males) as a within-subjects factor." It is unclear here what is considered as a "subject". If each analyzed article was considered "subject", then decade, journal, and salience should probably be considered between-subject factors and not within-subject. Also, it is unclear what was used as a dependent variable, as only the independent variables are listed. Also, the usage of "within-subject" implies that multiple data points were used per subject (?). What were those data points (e.g. Individual analyses within each article)?
For the same analysis, it is reported that "A significant main effect of the salience of gender differences was also observed", however no statistics for this effect are given. Also, because the dependent variable is unclear, it is hard to interpret what this main effect means.
For the analysis on page 382 under the heading "Visuospatial Displays of Gender Differences" (right column), the design is given as: "A 4x3x2x2 ANOVA was conducted with decade, publication, the salience of gender differences, and first author’s gender as within-subjects factors and the proportion of androcentric visuospatial displays as the dependent variable." Again it is unclear, why the factors should be considered within-subject and not between-subject. Also, the design gives decade with three instead of four levels as in the other analyses. Similarly, salience seems to be missing a factor. This could be due to the excluded data (only 282 of the originally sampled 388 articles were used). However, the F-statistic for a decade is reported as F(3, 203), implying four levels of the decade as in the other analysis. If a decade level was excluded, it would be interesting to know which one was dropped. Similarly, it would be helpful to know which level of the salience factor was dropped.
